add plugin build automation doc (#663)
grafana/plugin-tools: docusaurus/docs/publish-a-plugin/build-automation.md

---
id: build-automation
title: Automate plugin builds
sidebar_position: 1
description: Automate Grafana plugin builds and releases
keywords:
  - grafana
  - plugins
  - plugin
  - automation
  - build
  - automate
  - builds
---

# Automate packaging and signing with CI

If your plugin has been set up to use the supplied [Git workflows](../create-a-plugin/develop-a-plugin/set-up-github-workflows.md) from [create-plugin](../get-started/get-started.mdx),
the plugin should be built and packaged in the correct format.

We recommend using the ZIP file produced from this workflow to test the plugin.

If a signing key is included in the Git repo, a signed build is automatically created, which you can use to test the plugin locally before submission.

By creating a release tag, the whole process becomes automated, resulting in a ZIP file that you can submit for publication in the [Grafana plugin catalog](https://grafana.com/plugins)

> When you've packaged your plugin, proceed to [publishing a plugin](./publish-or-update-a-plugin.md) or [installing a packaged plugin](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/plugin-management/#install-a-packaged-plugin).

Reviewer: @briangann what do you think of adding a section here about https://github.com/grafana/plugin-actions/blob/main/build-plugin/README.md in case the person didn't generate the workflows?

Author: good idea - i've added a note at the top

---
id: build-automation
title: Automate plugin builds
sidebar_position: 1
description: Automate Grafana plugin builds and releases
keywords:
  - grafana
  - plugins
  - plugin
  - automation
  - build
  - automate
  - builds
---

# Automate packaging and signing with CI

If your plugin has been set up to use the supplied [Git workflows](../create-a-plugin/develop-a-plugin/set-up-github-workflows.md) from [create-plugin](../get-started/get-started.mdx),
the plugin should be built and packaged in the correct format.

If you need to set up the git worklows, see [these docs](https://github.com/grafana/plugin-actions/blob/main/build-plugin/README.md)

We recommend using the ZIP file produced from this workflow to test the plugin.

If a signing key is included in the Git repo, a signed build is automatically created, which you can use to test the plugin locally before submission.

By creating a release tag, the whole process becomes automated, resulting in a ZIP file that you can submit for publication in the [Grafana plugin catalog](https://grafana.com/plugins)

> ## Creating a Release Tag

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a release tag
```

A tag with the format `vX.X.X` is used to trigger the release workflow. Typically all of your changes will be merged into `main`, and the tag is applied to `main`

```BASH
git checkout main
git pull origin main
git tag v2.0.1
git push origin v2.0.1
```

If you need to re-tag the release, the current tag can be removed by issuing the commands:

```BASH
git tag -d v2.0.1
git push --delete origin v2.0.1
git checkout main
git pull origin  main
```

Once the push is made, you can create the same tag again.

> ## Downloading the release zip file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Download the release ZIP file
```

Access the final release zip file directly from the git repo release path.

[Link to generated ZIP](https://github.com/briangann/grafana-gauge-panel/releases/download/v2.0.1/briangann-gauge-panel-2.0.1.zip)

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```

---
id: build-automation
title: Automate plugin builds
sidebar_position: 1
description: Automate Grafana plugin builds and releases
keywords:
  - grafana
  - plugins
  - plugin
  - automation
  - build
  - automate
  - builds
---

> # Automate packaging and signing with CI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Automate packaging and signing with Github CI
```

> # Automate packaging and signing with Github CI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Automate packaging and signing with GitHub CI
```

> If your plugin has been set up to use the supplied [Github workflows](../create-a-plugin/develop-a-plugin/set-up-github-workflows.md) from [create-plugin](../get-started/get-started.mdx),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend setting up your plugin to use the supplied [Github workflows](../create-a-plugin/develop-a-plugin/set-up-github-workflows.md) from [create-plugin](../get-started/get-started.mdx)
```

> the plugin should be built and packaged in the correct format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to ensure that your plugin will be built and packaged in the correct format.
```

> If you need to set up the git worklows, see [these docs](https://github.com/grafana/plugin-actions/blob/main/build-plugin/README.md)

Reviewer: @briangann here we should use "github workflows" not "git workflows"

Author: good catch, missed that one!

> If you need to set up the git worklows, see [these docs](https://github.com/grafana/plugin-actions/blob/main/build-plugin/README.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to set up the Github worklows, see [these docs](https://github.com/grafana/plugin-actions/blob/main/build-plugin/README.md)
```

> If you need to set up the Github worklows, see [these docs](https://github.com/grafana/plugin-actions/blob/main/build-plugin/README.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do so, refer to [these docs](https://github.com/grafana/plugin-actions/blob/main/build-plugin/README.md).
```

> We recommend using the ZIP file produced from this workflow to test the plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, we recommend using the zip file produced from this workflow to test the plugin.
```

Reviewer 2: style note: doc team is in process of defining the style for "zip". i think this is the spelling that will probably be chosen. i think "zip" is what you had originally before my commit.

> If a signing key is included in the Git repo, a signed build is automatically created, which you can use to test the plugin locally before submission.

Reviewer: This sentence can be confusing, first because git itself doesn't have a mechanism to include secrets (unless is a file) so we should make sure we mention this is for GitHub repository secrets. I suggest we expand it to something like this:

If a Grafana Access Policy Token is included your [Github repository secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/managing-codespaces-for-your-organization/managing-development-environment-secrets-for-your-repository-or-organization), a signed build is automatically created, which you can use to test the plugin locally before submission.

Author: much clearer with that, thanks!

> If a Grafana Access Policy Token is included your [Github repository secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/managing-codespaces-for-your-organization/managing-development-environment-secrets-for-your-repository-or-organization), a signed build is automatically created, which you can use to test the plugin locally before submission.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a Grafana Access Policy Token is included your [Github repository secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/managing-codespaces-for-your-organization/managing-development-environment-secrets-for-your-repository-or-organization), a signed build is automatically created.  You can use this build to test the plugin locally before you submit it.
```

> By creating a release tag, the whole process becomes automated, resulting in a ZIP file that you can submit for publication in the [Grafana plugin catalog](https://grafana.com/plugins)

Reviewer 2: Don't use "release tag" without explaining what it is. For example, "It is a good practice to create a Git tag to annotate the release. By creating a release tag...."

> The ZIP file can be downloaded from the Summary page of the CI workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The zip file can be downloaded from the Summary page of the CI workflow.
```

## Create a release tag

> A tag with the format `vX.X.X` is used to trigger the release workflow. Typically all of your changes will be merged into `main`, and the tag is applied to `main`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A GitHub tag with the format `vX.X.X` is used to trigger the release workflow. Typically all of your changes will be merged into `main`, and the tag is applied to `main`
```

```BASH
git checkout main
git pull origin main
git tag v2.0.1
git push origin v2.0.1
```

> If you need to re-tag the release, the current tag can be removed by issuing the commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need to re-tag the release, the current tag can be removed with these commands:
```

```BASH
git tag -d v2.0.1
git push --delete origin v2.0.1
git checkout main
git pull origin  main
```

Once the push is made, you can create the same tag again.

## Download the release ZIP file

> Access the final release zip file directly from the git repo release path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Access the final release zip file directly from the Github repository release path.
```

> Once the push is made, you can create the same tag again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you push the tag, you can create the same tag again.
```

> ## Download the release ZIP file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Download the release zip file
```

> Access the final release zip file directly from the Github repository release path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Access the final release zip file directly from the GitHub repository release path.
```

> [Link to generated ZIP](https://github.com/briangann/grafana-gauge-panel/releases/download/v2.0.1/briangann-gauge-panel-2.0.1.zip)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Link to generated zip file](https://github.com/briangann/grafana-gauge-panel/releases/download/v2.0.1/briangann-gauge-panel-2.0.1.zip)
```
